findcore
========

Andrew C.R. Martin, UCL, 1996-2025
----------------------------------

All programs updated in November 2025 to use the new BiopLib library
and `findcora` tidied up to match our coding standards.


### findcore

The original `findcore` program was written in 1996 as part of the
analysis of the CASP2 comparative (template-based) modelling
assessment.  This was based on taking two structures fitted using
Christine Orengo's `SSAP` software which performed a structural
alignment and contained secondary structure assignments in its output.

The program reads the `SSAP` alignment and performs a fit between the
structures based on that alignment. It then throws out residue pairs
that have a C-alpha separation of >3A and grows the fitted regions
while the deviation C-alpha separation is <=3A. The fitting and zone
adjustment then iterated until no more residue pairs are added or
removed. (The default 3A cutoff can be changed on the command line.)

The final set of residues used for fitting is defined as the core.

### findcora

`findcora` is a modification of the `findcore` program done by Gabby
Marsden (nee Reeves), a PhD student working with Christine Orengo and
Andre Martin. She modified the program so that it could work with
multiple structure alignments from `Cora` rather than pairwise
alignments from `SSAP`.

### profitcore

`ProFit` is Andrew Martin's protein least-squares fitting software.
After `findcore` was written, `ProFit` was enhanced to add an
iterative structural alignment feature. This uses a seed alignment
(typically the sequence alignment) as a proxy for the structural
alignment; it then fits the structures and uses a dynamic programming
algorithm to update the equivalenced residues, and at the same time
brings in residue pairs with C-alpha separation of <=3A and throwing
out those with separation >3A. This then iterates to convergence. As
with `findcore`, this 3A cutoff can be changed.

Consequently, `ProFit` is doing a combination of what `SSAP` and
`findcore` were doing.

`profitcore` is a new program (November 2025) that takes the
sequentially numbered zones generated by `ProFit` and converts them to
residue number ranges (using the residue number labels found in the
PDB files). Optionally it will write PDB files where the zones used
for fitting (i.e. the core) have a B-value of 1.0 while all other
atoms have a B-value of 0.0.

Currently `profitcore` only handles 2 structures (i.e. like `SSAP` and
`findcore`), but will soon be updated to handle multiple structure
(like `CORA` and `findcora`).

Compilation
-----------

Compilation requires our `bioplib` library to be installed. It is then
just a case of typing `make` in the `src` directory.
